this game will likely never make it to a usable state, but working on it is giving me something to do.

worldnode:
add soils, sand/gravel (falling), snow, ...


nodevariant:
e.g. "stone bricks" for "stone"
APIs for adding certain variants
including color variants


ores:
ancient metals: iron gold copper tin lead silver mercury sulfur zinc
? arsenic antimony bismuth ? -- known but useless
other stuff: coal diamond (some gems)


trees:
no mod should be defining its own treegen - register them w/ us!


plants:
i like lush environments


farming:
lots of goodies


worldgen:
not sure how hard it is to create something to compete w/ e.g. valleys

we need 3d biomes for the underground
e.g. lower reaches should be basically all lava

create an easily extensible way for adding distinct worldgen zones defined by y level for e.g. the nether
- or maybe 3d zones? imagine a world w/ 4 different worldgens working in the different major quadrants

ideally, this should have some really neat features. giant underground caverns w/out the worry of flowing liquids
lagging the server out. tunnel systems in the appropriate biomes. caves/large tunnels w/ neat crystaline formations.
enormous mountains.


exotic_worldgen:
worldgen that adds a nether, asteroids, other stuff in the sky. perhaps off, by default.


food:
food primitives, e.g. "food.eat(...)"


cooking:
pit fire, roasting spits
fuel-burning ovens
bbq
cauldron
fermenting vat
- for e.g. pickles, saukraut, wine, beer
deep fryer


housewares:
chests, furnaces, tables,


tools:


metallurgy:
alloys
mechanisms for making alloys

storage:


logic:
redstone/mesecons replacement


basic storage transfer:
think tubelib pushers and tubes, but not the rest of it


electricity:
a framework for adding various kinds of machines
don't need machines outside a fuel-burning generator and an electric oven


microblocks:
circular saw, but w/ ability to register only for certain kinds of microblocks
(e.g. stairs)


climate:
seasons should be defined, but nothing need be triggered on them in the base


weather:
only if it can be done w/out too much FPS drop, which i doubt


holidays:
events defined for specific timespans


mobs:
provide some actually usable mob primitives that don't induce terrible lag


stamina:
rewrite some basics
- you can only eat so much of any one food at a time
 - eat multiple foods
 - a HUD display for what you've eaten
- different foods give you different bonuses to your health and stamina, which fade over time

irc integration:
this is VERY LOW PRIORITY
allow multiple irc servers w/out terrible hacks a la blocky


communication:
- mailboxes for various use cases
- optional /mail command


writing:
writable books
signs
- is there a way to make signs not-terrible? probably not.
- is there any caching done (or even do-able?) w/ the current font compositing?
- lua port of cairo? :\


existing mods:

game utils:
- replacer (fix)
- screwdriver (maybe rhotator too) - make it infinitely durable

admintools:
- cloaking
- verbana
- snippets
- invhack (but a version that just has a command instead of a stupid tool,
           that lets you inspect *all* the player's inventories, or inventories
           in their areas, or report if specified items can be found in either)


areas & worldedit
- for these two, have a basic mod that handles the designation of 3d volumes
- and fix all my major gripes w/ both
- areas should come w/ some sort of way for beginners to protect things easily (w/out commands)
 - like areasprotector
 - or markers

ambience
- it's nice to have sounds

astral
- it's nice to have moon phases and stuff

unified_inventory
- and +
- but fix some of the bullshit
- allow completely disabling the search feature
- allow important groups like currently on blocky
- allow disabling recipes/items until discovered

loot:
it'd be nice to actually have meaningful, usable loot

epic:
quests should be key





- lots of various commands
- improved chat (like the client-side chat  mod)
